# User Guide

## How the Program is Executed
In editors like VSCode, the program can be executed with the run button. Hovewer, I explained other ways below too.

### Command Line Interface (CLI)

- We open a terminal and go to where the project is at. 
cd where_the_project_is_located/ProjectCode

- We run the clinterface.py.
python rsa/clinterface.py

### Graphical User Interface (GUI)
- We open a terminal and go to where the project is at.
cd where_the_project_is_located/ProjectCode

- We run the clinterface.py.
python rsa/guinterface.py

## How the Different Functionalities of the Program are Used

### Key Generation

#### CLI
- Generate Keys: Follow the prompts in the CLI to generate a new pair of RSA keys. The keys will be saved to pubkey.txt and privkey.txt.
python rsa/clinterface.py
Follow the instructions to generate keys.

#### GUI
- Open the Key Generation Tab: Click on the "Key Generation" tab in the GUI.

- Generate Keys: Click the "Generate New Keys" button. The generated keys will be displayed in the text boxes and saved to pubkey.txt and privkey.txt.

### Encryption

#### CLI
- Encrypt a Message: Follow the prompts in the CLI to enter a message and encrypt it using the public key.
python rsa/clinterface.py
Follow the instructions to encrypt a message.

#### GUI
- Open the Encryption Tab: Click on the "Encryption" tab in the GUI.

- Enter Message: Enter the message to be encrypted in the provided text box.

- Encrypt Message: Click the "Encrypt" button. The encrypted message will be displayed in the text box.

### Decryption
#### CLI
- Decrypt a Message: Follow the prompts in the CLI to enter an encrypted message and decrypt it using the private key.
python rsa/clinterface.py
Follow the instructions to decrypt a message.

#### GUI
- Open the Decryption Tab: Click on the "Decryption" tab in the GUI.

- Enter Encrypted Message: Enter the encrypted message in the provided text box.

- Decrypt Message: Click the "Decrypt" button. The decrypted message will be displayed in the text box.

### What Format Inputs the Program Accepts
#### Key Generation
- Bit Length: The program accepts an integer value representing the bit length for key generation. The default value is 1024 bits.
#### Encryption
- Message: The program accepts a string message to be encrypted. The message can include letters, numbers, and special characters.
#### Decryption
- Encrypted Message: The program accepts an integer value representing the encrypted message. The encrypted message should be in the format generated by the encryption function.